docs/get-started/frameworks/angular.mdx, before:

---
title: Storybook for Angular
sidebar:
  order: 1
  title: Angular
---

Storybook for Angular is a [framework](../../contribute/framework.mdx) that makes it easy to develop and test UI components in isolation for [Angular](https://angular.io/) applications. It includes:

* 🧱 Uses Angular builders
* 🎛️ Compodoc integration
* 💫 and more!

<If notRenderer={'angular'}>
  <Callout variant="info">
    Storybook for Angular is only supported in [Angular](?renderer=angular) projects.
  </Callout>

  {/* End non-supported renderers */}
</If>

<If renderer={'angular'}>
  ## Requirements

  * Angular ≥ 15.0 \< 19.0
  * Webpack ≥ 5.0
  * Storybook ≥ 8.0

  ## Getting started

  ### In a project without Storybook

  Follow the prompts after running this command in your Angular project's root directory:

  {/* prettier-ignore-start */}

  <CodeSnippets path="init-command.md" />

  {/* prettier-ignore-end */}

  [More on getting started with Storybook.](../install.mdx)

  ### In a project with Storybook

  This framework is designed to work with Storybook 7+. If you’re not already using v7, upgrade with this command:

  {/* prettier-ignore-start */}

  <CodeSnippets path="storybook-upgrade.md" />

  {/* prettier-ignore-end */}

  #### Automatic migration

  When running the `upgrade` command above, you should get a prompt asking you to migrate to `@storybook/angular`, which should handle everything for you. In case that auto-migration does not work for your project, refer to the manual migration below.

  #### Manual migration

  First, install the framework:

  {/* prettier-ignore-start */}

  <CodeSnippets path="angular-install.md" />

  {/* prettier-ignore-end */}

  Then, update your `.storybook/main.js|ts` to change the framework property:

  {/* prettier-ignore-start */}

  <CodeSnippets path="angular-add-framework.md" />

  {/* prettier-ignore-end */}

  Finally, update your `angular.json` to include the Storybook builder:

  ```jsonc
  // angular.json
  {
    ...
    "projects": {
      ...
      "your-project": {
        ...
        "architect": {
          ...
          "storybook": {
            "builder": "@storybook/angular:start-storybook",
            "options": {
              // The path to the storybook config directory
              "configDir": ".storybook",
              // The build target of your project
              "browserTarget": "your-project:build",
              // The port you want to start Storybook on
              "port": 6006
              // More options available, documented here:
              // https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/tree/next/code/frameworks/angular/src/builders/start-storybook/schema.json
            }
          },
          "build-storybook": {
            "builder": "@storybook/angular:build-storybook",
            "options": {
              "configDir": ".storybook",
              "browserTarget": "your-project:build",
              "outputDir": "dist/storybook/your-project"
              // More options available, documented here:
              // https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/tree/next/code/frameworks/angular/src/builders/build-storybook/schema.json
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  ## Run Storybook

  To run Storybook for a particular project, please run:

  ```sh
  ng run <your-project>:storybook
  ```

  To build Storybook, run:

  ```sh
  ng run <your-project>:build-storybook
  ```

  You will find the output in the configured `outputDir` (default is `dist/storybook/<your-project>`).

  ## Setup Compodoc

  You can include JSDoc comments above components, directives, and other parts of your Angular code to include documentation for those elements. Compodoc uses these comments to [generate documentation](../../writing-docs/autodocs.mdx) for your application. In Storybook, it is useful to add explanatory comments above `@Inputs` and `@Outputs`, since these are the main elements that Storybook displays in its user interface. The `@Inputs` and `@Outputs` are the elements that you can interact with in Storybook, such as [controls](../../essentials/controls.mdx).

  ### Automatic setup

  When installing Storybook via `npx storybook@latest init`, you will be given the option to set up Compodoc automatically.

  ### Manual setup

  If you have already installed Storybook, you can set up Compodoc manually.

  Install the following dependencies:

  ```sh
  npm install --save-dev @compodoc/compodoc
  ```

  Add the following option to your Storybook Builder:

  ```jsonc
  // angular.json
  {
    ...
    "projects": {
      ...
      "your-project": {
        ...
        "architect": {
          ...
          "storybook": {
            "builder": "@storybook/angular:start-storybook",
            "options": {
              ...
              // 👇 Add these
              "compodoc": true,
              "compodocArgs": [
                "-e",
                "json",
                "-d",
                // Where to store the generated documentation. It's usually the root of your Angular project. It's not necessarily the root of your Angular Workspace!
                "."
              ],
            }
          },
          "build-storybook": {
            "builder": "@storybook/angular:build-storybook",
            "options": {
              ...
              // 👇 Add these
              "compodoc": true,
              "compodocArgs": [
                "-e",
                "json",
                "-d",
                "."
              ],
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  Go to your `.storybook/preview.js` and add the following:

  ```js
  // .storybook/preview.js
  // 👇 Add these
  import { setCompodocJson } from '@storybook/addon-docs/angular';
  import docJson from '../documentation.json';
  setCompodocJson(docJson);

  // ... rest of file
  ```

  ## `applicationConfig` decorator

  If your component relies on application-wide providers, like the ones defined by BrowserAnimationsModule or any other modules which use the forRoot pattern to provide a ModuleWithProviders, you can apply the `applicationConfig` [decorator](../../writing-stories/decorators.mdx) to all stories for that component. This will provide them to the [bootstrapApplication function](https://angular.io/guide/standalone-components#configuring-dependency-injection), which is used to bootstrap the component in Storybook.

  ```ts
  // ChipsModule.stories.ts
  import { Meta, applicationConfig, StoryObj } from '@storybook/angular';
  import { BrowserAnimationsModule, provideAnimations } from '@angular/platform-browser/animations';
  import { importProvidersFrom } from '@angular/core';

  import { ChipsModule } from './angular-src/chips.module';

  const meta: Meta<ChipsModule> = {
    component: ChipsModule,
    decorators: [
      // Apply application config to all stories
      applicationConfig({
        // List of providers and environment providers that should be available to the root component and all its children.
        providers: [
          ...
          // Import application-wide providers from a module
          importProvidersFrom(BrowserAnimationsModule)
          // Or use provide-style functions if available instead, e.g.
          provideAnimations()
        ],
      }),
    ],
  };

  export default meta;

  type Story = StoryObj<ChipsModule>;

  export const WithCustomApplicationProvider: Story = {
    render: () => ({
      // Apply application config to a specific story
      applicationConfig: {
        // The providers will be merged with the ones defined in the applicationConfig decorators providers array of the global meta object
        providers: [...],
      }
    })
  }
  ```

  ## `moduleMetadata` decorator

  If your component has dependencies on other Angular directives and modules, these can be supplied using the `moduleMetadata` [decorator](../../writing-stories/decorators.mdx) either for all stories of a component or for individual stories.

  ```ts
  // YourComponent.stories.ts
  import { Meta, moduleMetadata, StoryObj } from '@storybook/angular';

  import { YourComponent } from './your.component';

  const meta: Meta<YourComponent> = {
    component: YourComponent,
    decorators: [
      // Apply metadata to all stories
      moduleMetadata({
        // import necessary ngModules or standalone components
        imports: [...],
        // declare components that are used in the template
        declarations: [...],
        // List of providers that should be available to the root component and all its children.
        providers: [...],
      }),
    ],
  };
  export default meta;

  type Story = StoryObj<YourComponent>;

  export const Base: Story = {};

  export const WithCustomProvider: Story = {
    decorators: [
      // Apply metadata to a specific story
      moduleMetadata({
        imports: [...],
        declarations: [...],
        providers: [...],
      }),
    ],
  };
  ```

  ## FAQ

  ### How do I migrate to an Angular Storybook builder?

  The Storybook [Angular builder](https://angular.io/guide/glossary#builder) is a way to run Storybook in an Angular workspace. It is a drop-in replacement for running `storybook dev` and `storybook build` directly.

  You can run `npx storybook@next automigrate` to try let Storybook detect and automatically fix your configuration. Otherwise, you can follow the next steps to manually adjust your configuration.

  #### Do you have only one Angular project in your workspace?

  First, go to your `angular.json` and add `storybook` and `build-storybook` entries in `architect` section of your project like shown above.

  Second, adjust your `package.json` script section. Usually, it will look like this:

  ```jsonc
  {
    "scripts": {
      "storybook": "start-storybook -p 6006", // or `storybook dev -p 6006`
      "build-storybook": "build-storybook" // or `storybook build`
    }
  }
  ```

  Now, you can run Storybook with `ng run <your-project>:storybook` and build it with `ng run <your-project>:build-storybook`. Adjust the scripts in your `package.json` accordingly.

  ```json
  {
    "scripts": {
      "storybook": "ng run <project-name>:storybook",
      "build-storybook": "ng run <project-name>:build-storybook"
    }
  }
  ```

  Also compodoc is now built-in in `@storybook/angular` and you don't have to call it explicitly. If were running compodoc in your `package.json` scripts like this:

  ```json
  {
    "scripts": {
      "docs:json": "compodoc -p tsconfig.json -e json -d ./documentation",
      "storybook": "npm run docs:json && start-storybook -p 6006",
      "build-storybook": "npm run docs:json && build-storybook"
    }
  }
  ```

  Change it to:

  ```json
  {
    "scripts": {
      "storybook": "ng run <project-name>:storybook",
      "build-storybook": "ng run <project-name>:build-storybook"
    }
  }
  ```

  #### I have multiple projects in my Angular workspace

  In this case you have to adjust your `angular.json` and `package.json` as described above for each project in which you want to use Storybook. Please note, that each project should have a dedicated `.storybook` folder, which should be placed in the root of the project.

  You can run `npx storybook@latest init` sequentially for each project to setup Storybook for each of them to automatically create the `.storybook` folder and create the necessary configuration in your `angular.json`.

  You can then use [Storybook composition](https://storybook.js.org/docs/angular/sharing/storybook-composition) to composite multiple Storybooks into one.

  ### How do I configure Angular's builder for Storybook?

  These are common options you may need for the Angular builder:

  | Configuration element        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                     |
  | ---------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | `"browserTarget"`            | Build target to be served using the following format. <br /> `"example-project:builder:config"`                                                                                                 |
  | `"tsConfig"`                 | Location of the TypeScript configuration file, relative to the current workspace. <br /> `"tsConfig": "./tsconfig.json"`.                                                                       |
  | `"port"`                     | Port used by Storybook. <br /> `"port": 6006`                                                                                                                                                   |
  | `"host"`                     | Set up a custom host for Storybook. <br /> `"host": "http://my-custom-host"`                                                                                                                    |
  | `"configDir"`                | Storybook configuration directory location. <br /> `"configDir": ".storybook"`                                                                                                                  |
  | `"https"`                    | Starts Storybook with HTTPS enabled. <br /> `"https": true` <br /> Requires custom certificate information.                                                                                     |
  | `"sslCa"`                    | Provides an SSL certificate authority. <br /> `"sslCa": "your-custom-certificate-authority"` <br /> Optional usage with `"https"`                                                               |
  | `"sslCert"`                  | Provides an SSL certificate. <br /> `"sslCert": "your-custom-certificate"` <br /> Required for `https`                                                                                          |
  | `"sslKey"`                   | Provides an SSL key to serve Storybook. <br /> `"sslKey": "your-ssl-key"`                                                                                                                       |
  | `"smokeTest"`                | Exit Storybook after successful start. <br /> `"smokeTest": true`                                                                                                                               |
  | `"ci"`                       | Starts Storybook in CI mode (skips interactive prompts and will not open browser window). <br /> `"ci": true`                                                                                   |
  | `"quiet"`                    | Filters Storybook verbose build output. <br /> `"quiet": true`                                                                                                                                  |
  | `"docs"`                     | Starts Storybook in [documentation mode](../../writing-docs/build-documentation.mdx#preview-storybooks-documentation). <br /> `"docs": true`                                                    |
  | `"styles"`                   | Provide the location of the [application's styles](../../configure/styling-and-css.mdx#importing-css-files) to be used with Storybook. <br /> `"styles": ["src/styles.css", "src/styles.scss"]` |
  | `"stylePreprocessorOptions"` | Provides further customization for style preprocessors resolved to the workspace root. <br /> `"stylePreprocessorOptions": { "includePaths": ["src/styles"] }`                                  |

  The full list of options can be found in the Angular builder schemas:

  * [Build Storybook](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/main/code/frameworks/angular/src/builders/build-storybook/schema.json)
  * [Start Storybook](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/main/code/frameworks/angular/src/builders/start-storybook/schema.json)

  ## API

  ### Options

  You can pass an options object for additional configuration if needed:

  ```js
  // .storybook/main.js
  import * as path from 'path';

  export default {
    // ...
    framework: {
      name: '@storybook/angular',
      options: {
        // ...
      },
    },
  };
  ```

  The available options are:

  #### `builder`

  Type: `Record<string, any>`

  Configure options for the [framework's builder](../../api/main-config/main-config-framework.mdx#optionsbuilder). For Angular, , available options can be found in the [Webpack builder docs](../../builders/webpack.mdx).

  {/* End supported renderers */}
</If>

Commit message:

Update documented Angular builder options

docs/get-started/frameworks/angular.mdx, after:

---
title: Storybook for Angular
sidebar:
  order: 1
  title: Angular
---

Storybook for Angular is a [framework](../../contribute/framework.mdx) that makes it easy to develop and test UI components in isolation for [Angular](https://angular.io/) applications. It includes:

* 🧱 Uses Angular builders
* 🎛️ Compodoc integration
* 💫 and more!

<If notRenderer={'angular'}>
  <Callout variant="info">
    Storybook for Angular is only supported in [Angular](?renderer=angular) projects.
  </Callout>

  {/* End non-supported renderers */}
</If>

<If renderer={'angular'}>
  ## Requirements

  * Angular ≥ 15.0 \< 19.0
  * Webpack ≥ 5.0
  * Storybook ≥ 8.0

  ## Getting started

  ### In a project without Storybook

  Follow the prompts after running this command in your Angular project's root directory:

  {/* prettier-ignore-start */}

  <CodeSnippets path="init-command.md" />

  {/* prettier-ignore-end */}

  [More on getting started with Storybook.](../install.mdx)

  ### In a project with Storybook

  This framework is designed to work with Storybook 7+. If you’re not already using v7, upgrade with this command:

  {/* prettier-ignore-start */}

  <CodeSnippets path="storybook-upgrade.md" />

  {/* prettier-ignore-end */}

  #### Automatic migration

  When running the `upgrade` command above, you should get a prompt asking you to migrate to `@storybook/angular`, which should handle everything for you. In case that auto-migration does not work for your project, refer to the manual migration below.

  #### Manual migration

  First, install the framework:

  {/* prettier-ignore-start */}

  <CodeSnippets path="angular-install.md" />

  {/* prettier-ignore-end */}

  Then, update your `.storybook/main.js|ts` to change the framework property:

  {/* prettier-ignore-start */}

  <CodeSnippets path="angular-add-framework.md" />

  {/* prettier-ignore-end */}

  Finally, update your `angular.json` to include the Storybook builder:

  ```jsonc
  // angular.json
  {
    ...
    "projects": {
      ...
      "your-project": {
        ...
        "architect": {
          ...
          "storybook": {
            "builder": "@storybook/angular:start-storybook",
            "options": {
              // The path to the storybook config directory
              "configDir": ".storybook",
              // The build target of your project
              "browserTarget": "your-project:build",
              // The port you want to start Storybook on
              "port": 6006
              // More options available, documented here:
              // https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/tree/next/code/frameworks/angular/src/builders/start-storybook/schema.json
            }
          },
          "build-storybook": {
            "builder": "@storybook/angular:build-storybook",
            "options": {
              "configDir": ".storybook",
              "browserTarget": "your-project:build",
              "outputDir": "dist/storybook/your-project"
              // More options available, documented here:
              // https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/tree/next/code/frameworks/angular/src/builders/build-storybook/schema.json
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  ## Run Storybook

  To run Storybook for a particular project, please run:

  ```sh
  ng run <your-project>:storybook
  ```

  To build Storybook, run:

  ```sh
  ng run <your-project>:build-storybook
  ```

  You will find the output in the configured `outputDir` (default is `dist/storybook/<your-project>`).

  ## Setup Compodoc

  You can include JSDoc comments above components, directives, and other parts of your Angular code to include documentation for those elements. Compodoc uses these comments to [generate documentation](../../writing-docs/autodocs.mdx) for your application. In Storybook, it is useful to add explanatory comments above `@Inputs` and `@Outputs`, since these are the main elements that Storybook displays in its user interface. The `@Inputs` and `@Outputs` are the elements that you can interact with in Storybook, such as [controls](../../essentials/controls.mdx).

  ### Automatic setup

  When installing Storybook via `npx storybook@latest init`, you will be given the option to set up Compodoc automatically.

  ### Manual setup

  If you have already installed Storybook, you can set up Compodoc manually.

  Install the following dependencies:

  ```sh
  npm install --save-dev @compodoc/compodoc
  ```

  Add the following option to your Storybook Builder:

  ```jsonc
  // angular.json
  {
    ...
    "projects": {
      ...
      "your-project": {
        ...
        "architect": {
          ...
          "storybook": {
            "builder": "@storybook/angular:start-storybook",
            "options": {
              ...
              // 👇 Add these
              "compodoc": true,
              "compodocArgs": [
                "-e",
                "json",
                "-d",
                // Where to store the generated documentation. It's usually the root of your Angular project. It's not necessarily the root of your Angular Workspace!
                "."
              ],
            }
          },
          "build-storybook": {
            "builder": "@storybook/angular:build-storybook",
            "options": {
              ...
              // 👇 Add these
              "compodoc": true,
              "compodocArgs": [
                "-e",
                "json",
                "-d",
                "."
              ],
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  Go to your `.storybook/preview.js` and add the following:

  ```js
  // .storybook/preview.js
  // 👇 Add these
  import { setCompodocJson } from '@storybook/addon-docs/angular';
  import docJson from '../documentation.json';
  setCompodocJson(docJson);

  // ... rest of file
  ```

  ## `applicationConfig` decorator

  If your component relies on application-wide providers, like the ones defined by BrowserAnimationsModule or any other modules which use the forRoot pattern to provide a ModuleWithProviders, you can apply the `applicationConfig` [decorator](../../writing-stories/decorators.mdx) to all stories for that component. This will provide them to the [bootstrapApplication function](https://angular.io/guide/standalone-components#configuring-dependency-injection), which is used to bootstrap the component in Storybook.

  ```ts
  // ChipsModule.stories.ts
  import { Meta, applicationConfig, StoryObj } from '@storybook/angular';
  import { BrowserAnimationsModule, provideAnimations } from '@angular/platform-browser/animations';
  import { importProvidersFrom } from '@angular/core';

  import { ChipsModule } from './angular-src/chips.module';

  const meta: Meta<ChipsModule> = {
    component: ChipsModule,
    decorators: [
      // Apply application config to all stories
      applicationConfig({
        // List of providers and environment providers that should be available to the root component and all its children.
        providers: [
          ...
          // Import application-wide providers from a module
          importProvidersFrom(BrowserAnimationsModule)
          // Or use provide-style functions if available instead, e.g.
          provideAnimations()
        ],
      }),
    ],
  };

  export default meta;

  type Story = StoryObj<ChipsModule>;

  export const WithCustomApplicationProvider: Story = {
    render: () => ({
      // Apply application config to a specific story
      applicationConfig: {
        // The providers will be merged with the ones defined in the applicationConfig decorators providers array of the global meta object
        providers: [...],
      }
    })
  }
  ```

  ## `moduleMetadata` decorator

  If your component has dependencies on other Angular directives and modules, these can be supplied using the `moduleMetadata` [decorator](../../writing-stories/decorators.mdx) either for all stories of a component or for individual stories.

  ```ts
  // YourComponent.stories.ts
  import { Meta, moduleMetadata, StoryObj } from '@storybook/angular';

  import { YourComponent } from './your.component';

  const meta: Meta<YourComponent> = {
    component: YourComponent,
    decorators: [
      // Apply metadata to all stories
      moduleMetadata({
        // import necessary ngModules or standalone components
        imports: [...],
        // declare components that are used in the template
        declarations: [...],
        // List of providers that should be available to the root component and all its children.
        providers: [...],
      }),
    ],
  };
  export default meta;

  type Story = StoryObj<YourComponent>;

  export const Base: Story = {};

  export const WithCustomProvider: Story = {
    decorators: [
      // Apply metadata to a specific story
      moduleMetadata({
        imports: [...],
        declarations: [...],
        providers: [...],
      }),
    ],
  };
  ```

  ## FAQ

  ### How do I migrate to an Angular Storybook builder?

  The Storybook [Angular builder](https://angular.io/guide/glossary#builder) is a way to run Storybook in an Angular workspace. It is a drop-in replacement for running `storybook dev` and `storybook build` directly.

  You can run `npx storybook@next automigrate` to try let Storybook detect and automatically fix your configuration. Otherwise, you can follow the next steps to manually adjust your configuration.

  #### Do you have only one Angular project in your workspace?

  First, go to your `angular.json` and add `storybook` and `build-storybook` entries in `architect` section of your project like shown above.

  Second, adjust your `package.json` script section. Usually, it will look like this:

  ```jsonc
  {
    "scripts": {
      "storybook": "start-storybook -p 6006", // or `storybook dev -p 6006`
      "build-storybook": "build-storybook" // or `storybook build`
    }
  }
  ```

  Now, you can run Storybook with `ng run <your-project>:storybook` and build it with `ng run <your-project>:build-storybook`. Adjust the scripts in your `package.json` accordingly.

  ```json
  {
    "scripts": {
      "storybook": "ng run <project-name>:storybook",
      "build-storybook": "ng run <project-name>:build-storybook"
    }
  }
  ```

  Also compodoc is now built-in in `@storybook/angular` and you don't have to call it explicitly. If were running compodoc in your `package.json` scripts like this:

  ```json
  {
    "scripts": {
      "docs:json": "compodoc -p tsconfig.json -e json -d ./documentation",
      "storybook": "npm run docs:json && start-storybook -p 6006",
      "build-storybook": "npm run docs:json && build-storybook"
    }
  }
  ```

  Change it to:

  ```json
  {
    "scripts": {
      "storybook": "ng run <project-name>:storybook",
      "build-storybook": "ng run <project-name>:build-storybook"
    }
  }
  ```

  #### I have multiple projects in my Angular workspace

  In this case you have to adjust your `angular.json` and `package.json` as described above for each project in which you want to use Storybook. Please note, that each project should have a dedicated `.storybook` folder, which should be placed in the root of the project.

  You can run `npx storybook@latest init` sequentially for each project to setup Storybook for each of them to automatically create the `.storybook` folder and create the necessary configuration in your `angular.json`.

  You can then use [Storybook composition](https://storybook.js.org/docs/angular/sharing/storybook-composition) to composite multiple Storybooks into one.

  ### How do I configure Angular's builder for Storybook?

  These are common options you may need for the Angular builder:

  | Configuration element        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                     |
  | ---------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | `"browserTarget"`            | Build target to be served using the following format. <br /> `"example-project:builder:config"`                                                                                                 |
  | `"debugWebpack"`             | Debug the Webpack configuration <br /> `"debugWebpack": true`                                                                                                                                   |
  | `"tsConfig"`                 | Location of the TypeScript configuration file, relative to the current workspace. <br /> `"tsConfig": "./tsconfig.json"`.                                                                       |
  | `"preserveSymlinks"`         | Do not use the real path when resolving modules. If true, symlinks are resolved to their real path, if false, symlinks are resolved to their symlinked path. <br /> `"preserveSymlinks": true`  |
  | `"port"`                     | Port used by Storybook. <br /> `"port": 6006`                                                                                                                                                   |
  | `"host"`                     | Set up a custom host for Storybook. <br /> `"host": "http://my-custom-host"`                                                                                                                    |
  | `"configDir"`                | Storybook configuration directory location. <br /> `"configDir": ".storybook"`                                                                                                                  |
  | `"https"`                    | Starts Storybook with HTTPS enabled. <br /> `"https": true` <br /> Requires custom certificate information.                                                                                     |
  | `"sslCa"`                    | Provides an SSL certificate authority. <br /> `"sslCa": "your-custom-certificate-authority"` <br /> Optional usage with `"https"`                                                               |
  | `"sslCert"`                  | Provides an SSL certificate. <br /> `"sslCert": "your-custom-certificate"` <br /> Required for `https`                                                                                          |
  | `"sslKey"`                   | Provides an SSL key to serve Storybook. <br /> `"sslKey": "your-ssl-key"`                                                                                                                       |
  | `"smokeTest"`                | Exit Storybook after successful start. <br /> `"smokeTest": true`                                                                                                                               |
  | `"ci"`                       | Starts Storybook in CI mode (skips interactive prompts and will not open browser window). <br /> `"ci": true`                                                                                   |
  | `"open"`                     | Whether to open Storybook automatically in the browser. <br /> `"open": true`                                                                                                                   |
  | `"quiet"`                    | Filters Storybook verbose build output. <br /> `"quiet": true`                                                                                                                                  |
  | `"enableProdMode"`           | Disable Angular's development mode, which turns off assertions and other checks within the framework. <br /> `"enableProdMode": true`                                                           |
  | `"docs"`                     | Starts Storybook in [documentation mode](../../writing-docs/build-documentation.mdx#preview-storybooks-documentation). <br /> `"docs": true`                                                    |
  | `"compodoc"`                 | Execute compodoc before. <br /> `"compodoc": true`                                                                                                                                              |
  | `"compodocArgs"`             | Compodoc options : https://compodoc.app/guides/options.html. Options `-p` with tsconfig path and `-d` with workspace root is always given. <br /> `"compodocArgs": ["-e", "json"]`              |
  | `"styles"`                   | Provide the location of the [application's styles](../../configure/styling-and-css.mdx#importing-css-files) to be used with Storybook. <br /> `"styles": ["src/styles.css", "src/styles.scss"]` |
  | `"stylePreprocessorOptions"` | Provides further customization for style preprocessors resolved to the workspace root. <br /> `"stylePreprocessorOptions": { "includePaths": ["src/styles"] }`                                  |
  | `"assets"`                   | List of static application assets. <br /> `"assets": ["src/assets"]`                                                                                                                            |
  | `"initialPath"`              | URL path to be appended when visiting Storybook for the first time. <br /> `"initialPath": "docs/configure-your-project--docs"`                                                                 |
  | `"webpackStatsJson"`         | Write Webpack Stats JSON to disk. <br /> `"webpackStatsJson": true`                                                                                                                             |
  | `"previewUrl"`               | Disables the default storybook preview and lets you use your own. <br /> `"previewUrl": "iframe.html"`                                                                                          |
  | `"loglevel"`                 | Controls level of logging during build. Can be one of: [silly, verbose, info (default), warn, error, silent]. <br /> `"loglevel": "info"`                                                       |
  | `"sourceMap"`                | Configure sourcemaps. See: https://angular.io/guide/workspace-config#source-map-configuration. <br /> `"sourceMap": true`                                                                       |

  The full list of options can be found in the Angular builder schemas:

  * [Build Storybook](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/main/code/frameworks/angular/src/builders/build-storybook/schema.json)
  * [Start Storybook](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/blob/main/code/frameworks/angular/src/builders/start-storybook/schema.json)

  ## API

  ### Options

  You can pass an options object for additional configuration if needed:

  ```js
  // .storybook/main.js
  import * as path from 'path';

  export default {
    // ...
    framework: {
      name: '@storybook/angular',
      options: {
        // ...
      },
    },
  };
  ```

  The available options are:

  #### `builder`

  Type: `Record<string, any>`

  Configure options for the [framework's builder](../../api/main-config/main-config-framework.mdx#optionsbuilder). For Angular, , available options can be found in the [Webpack builder docs](../../builders/webpack.mdx).

  {/* End supported renderers */}
</If>
