docs/writing-stories/naming-components-and-hierarchy.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Naming components and hierarchy'
sidebar:
  order: 7
  title: Naming components and hierarchy
---

<YouTubeCallout id="VPfjrhDlkVc" title="How to Name Stories and Components" />

Storybook provides a powerful way to organize your stories, giving you the necessary tools to categorize, search, and filter your stories based on your organization's needs and preferences.

## Structure and hierarchy

When organizing your Storybook, there are two methods of structuring your stories: **implicit** and **explicit**. The [implicit method](../configure/user-interface/sidebar-and-urls.mdx#csf-30-auto-titles) involves relying upon the physical location of your stories to position them in the sidebar, while the [explicit method](#naming-stories) involves utilizing the `title` parameter to place the story.

![Storybook sidebar hierarchy](../_assets/writing-stories/naming-hierarchy-sidebar-anatomy.png)

Based on how you structure your Storybook, you can see that the story hierarchy is made up of various parts:

* **Category**: The top-level grouping of stories and documentation pages generated by Storybook
* **Folder**: A mid-level organizational unit that groups components and stories in the sidebar, representing a feature or section of your application
* **Component**: A low-level organizational unit representing the component that the story is testing
* **Docs**: The automatically generated [documentation page](../writing-docs/autodocs.mdx) for the component
* **Story**: The individual story testing a specific component state

## Naming stories

When creating your stories, you can explicitly use the `title` parameter to define the story's position in the sidebar. It can also be used to [group](#grouping) related components together in an expandable interface to help with Storybook organization providing a more intuitive experience for your users. For example:

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="button-story-default-export.md" usesCsf3 csf2Path="writing-stories/naming-components-and-hierarchy#snippet-button-story-default-export" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

Yields this:

![Stories hierarchy without paths](../_assets/writing-stories/naming-hierarchy-no-path.png)

## Grouping

It is also possible to group related components in an expandable interface to help with Storybook organization. To do so, use the `/` as a separator:

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="button-story-grouped.md" usesCsf3 csf2Path="writing-stories/naming-components-and-hierarchy#snippet-button-story-grouped" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="checkbox-story-grouped.md" usesCsf3 csf2Path="writing-stories/naming-components-and-hierarchy#snippet-checkbox-story-grouped" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

Yields this:

![Stories hierarchy with paths](../_assets/writing-stories/naming-hierarchy-with-path.png)

## Roots

By default, the top-level grouping will be displayed as “root” in the Storybook UI (i.e., the uppercased, non-expandable items). If you need, you can [configure Storybook](../configure/user-interface/sidebar-and-urls.mdx#roots) and disable this behavior. Useful if you need to provide a streamlined experience for your users; nevertheless, if you have a large Storybook composed of multiple component stories, we recommend naming your components according to the file hierarchy.

## Single-story hoisting

Single-story components (i.e., component stories without **siblings**) whose **display name** exactly matches the component's name (last part of `title`) are automatically hoisted up to replace their parent component in the UI. For example:

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="button-story-hoisted.md" usesCsf3 csf2Path="writing-stories/naming-components-and-hierarchy#snippet-button-story-hoisted" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

![Stories hierarchy with single story hoisting](../_assets/writing-stories/naming-hierarchy-single-story-hoisting.png)

Because story exports are automatically "start cased" (`myStory` becomes `"My Story"`), your component name should match that. Alternatively, you can override the story name using `myStory.storyName = '...'` to match the component name.

## Sorting stories

Out of the box, Storybook sorts stories based on the order in which they are imported. However, you can customize this pattern to suit your needs and provide a more intuitive experience by adding `storySort` to the `options` parameter in your `preview.js` file.

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="storybook-preview-sort-function.md" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

<Callout variant="info">
  Asides from the unique story identifier, you can also use the `title`, `name`, and import path to sort your stories using the `storySort` function.
</Callout>

The `storySort` can also accept a configuration object.

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="storybook-preview-empty-sort-object.md" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

| Field            | Type    | Description                                              | Required | Default Value           | Example                   |
| ---------------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------- |
| **method**       | String  | Tells Storybook in which order the stories are displayed | No       | Storybook configuration | `'alphabetical'`          |
| **order**        | Array   | The stories to be shown, ordered by supplied name        | No       | Empty Array `[]`        | `['Intro', 'Components']` |
| **includeNames** | Boolean | Include story name in sort calculation                   | No       | `false`                 | `true`                    |
| **locales**      | String  | The locale required to be displayed                      | No       | System locale           | `en-US`                   |

To sort your stories alphabetically, set `method` to `'alphabetical'` and optionally set the `locales` string. To sort your stories using a custom list, use the `order` array; stories that don't match an item in the `order` list will appear after the items in the list.

The `order` array can accept a nested array to sort 2nd-level story kinds. For example:

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="storybook-preview-with-ordered-pages.md" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

Which would result in this story ordering:

1. `Intro` and then `Intro/*` stories
2. `Pages` story
3. `Pages/Home` and `Pages/Home/*` stories
4. `Pages/Login` and `Pages/Login/*` stories
5. `Pages/Admin` and `Pages/Admin/*` stories
6. `Pages/*` stories
7. `Components` and `Components/*` stories
8. All other stories

If you want specific categories to sort to the end of the list, you can insert a `*` into your `order` array to indicate where "all other stories" should go:

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="storybook-preview-with-ordered-pages-and-wildcard.md" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

In this example, the `WIP` category would be displayed at the end of the list.

Note that the `order` option is independent of the `method` option; stories are sorted first by the `order` array and then by either the `method: 'alphabetical'` or the default `configure()` import order.

Commit message:

add docs for weighted story sorting

docs/writing-stories/naming-components-and-hierarchy.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Naming components and hierarchy'
sidebar:
  order: 7
  title: Naming components and hierarchy
---

<YouTubeCallout id="VPfjrhDlkVc" title="How to Name Stories and Components" />

Storybook provides a powerful way to organize your stories, giving you the necessary tools to categorize, search, and filter your stories based on your organization's needs and preferences.

## Structure and hierarchy

When organizing your Storybook, there are two methods of structuring your stories: **implicit** and **explicit**. The [implicit method](../configure/user-interface/sidebar-and-urls.mdx#csf-30-auto-titles) involves relying upon the physical location of your stories to position them in the sidebar, while the [explicit method](#naming-stories) involves utilizing the `title` parameter to place the story.

![Storybook sidebar hierarchy](../_assets/writing-stories/naming-hierarchy-sidebar-anatomy.png)

Based on how you structure your Storybook, you can see that the story hierarchy is made up of various parts:

* **Category**: The top-level grouping of stories and documentation pages generated by Storybook
* **Folder**: A mid-level organizational unit that groups components and stories in the sidebar, representing a feature or section of your application
* **Component**: A low-level organizational unit representing the component that the story is testing
* **Docs**: The automatically generated [documentation page](../writing-docs/autodocs.mdx) for the component
* **Story**: The individual story testing a specific component state

## Naming stories

When creating your stories, you can explicitly use the `title` parameter to define the story's position in the sidebar. It can also be used to [group](#grouping) related components together in an expandable interface to help with Storybook organization providing a more intuitive experience for your users. For example:

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="button-story-default-export.md" usesCsf3 csf2Path="writing-stories/naming-components-and-hierarchy#snippet-button-story-default-export" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

Yields this:

![Stories hierarchy without paths](../_assets/writing-stories/naming-hierarchy-no-path.png)

## Grouping

It is also possible to group related components in an expandable interface to help with Storybook organization. To do so, use the `/` as a separator:

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="button-story-grouped.md" usesCsf3 csf2Path="writing-stories/naming-components-and-hierarchy#snippet-button-story-grouped" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="checkbox-story-grouped.md" usesCsf3 csf2Path="writing-stories/naming-components-and-hierarchy#snippet-checkbox-story-grouped" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

Yields this:

![Stories hierarchy with paths](../_assets/writing-stories/naming-hierarchy-with-path.png)

## Roots

By default, the top-level grouping will be displayed as “root” in the Storybook UI (i.e., the uppercased, non-expandable items). If you need, you can [configure Storybook](../configure/user-interface/sidebar-and-urls.mdx#roots) and disable this behavior. Useful if you need to provide a streamlined experience for your users; nevertheless, if you have a large Storybook composed of multiple component stories, we recommend naming your components according to the file hierarchy.

## Single-story hoisting

Single-story components (i.e., component stories without **siblings**) whose **display name** exactly matches the component's name (last part of `title`) are automatically hoisted up to replace their parent component in the UI. For example:

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="button-story-hoisted.md" usesCsf3 csf2Path="writing-stories/naming-components-and-hierarchy#snippet-button-story-hoisted" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

![Stories hierarchy with single story hoisting](../_assets/writing-stories/naming-hierarchy-single-story-hoisting.png)

Because story exports are automatically "start cased" (`myStory` becomes `"My Story"`), your component name should match that. Alternatively, you can override the story name using `myStory.storyName = '...'` to match the component name.

## Sorting stories

Out of the box, Storybook sorts stories based on the order in which they are imported. However, you can customize this pattern to suit your needs and provide a more intuitive experience by adding `storySort` to the `options` parameter in your `preview.js` file.

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="storybook-preview-sort-function.md" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

<Callout variant="info">
  Asides from the unique story identifier, you can also use the `title`, `name`, and import path to sort your stories using the `storySort` function.
</Callout>

The `storySort` can also accept a configuration object.

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="storybook-preview-empty-sort-object.md" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

| Field            | Type    | Description                                              | Required | Default Value           | Example                       |
| ---------------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ----------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| **method**       | String  | Tells Storybook in which order the stories are displayed | No       | Storybook configuration | `'alphabetical'`              |
| **order**        | Array   | The stories to be shown, ordered by supplied name        | No       | Empty Array `[]`        | `['Intro', 'Components']`     |
| **weights**      | Object  | A map of story names to weights.                         | No       | Empty Object `{}`       | `{Intro: -2, Components: -1}` |
| **includeNames** | Boolean | Include story name in sort calculation                   | No       | `false`                 | `true`                        |
| **locales**      | String  | The locale required to be displayed                      | No       | System locale           | `en-US`                       |

To sort your stories alphabetically, set `method` to `'alphabetical'` and optionally set the `locales` string. To sort your stories using a custom list, use the `order` array; stories that don't match an item in the `order` list will appear after the items in the list.

The `order` array can accept a nested array to sort 2nd-level story kinds. For example:

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="storybook-preview-with-ordered-pages.md" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

Which would result in this story ordering:

1. `Intro` and then `Intro/*` stories
2. `Pages` story
3. `Pages/Home` and `Pages/Home/*` stories
4. `Pages/Login` and `Pages/Login/*` stories
5. `Pages/Admin` and `Pages/Admin/*` stories
6. `Pages/*` stories
7. `Components` and `Components/*` stories
8. All other stories

If you want specific categories to sort to the end of the list, you can insert a `*` into your `order` array to indicate where "all other stories" should go:

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="storybook-preview-with-ordered-pages-and-wildcard.md" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

In this example, the `WIP` category would be displayed at the end of the list.

Note that the `order` option is independent of the `method` option; stories are sorted first by the `order` array and then by either the `method: 'alphabetical'` or the default `configure()` import order.

The `weights` object gives you the flexibility to ensure certain story names always appear at either the top or bottom of the list, regardless of how deep they are in the story hierarchy. Negative-weighted stories will appear at the top of the list, while positive-weighted stories will appear at the bottom. If two stories have the same weight, it will not affect the order. Unweighted stories are treated as having a weight of `0`.

For example, the following configurations are functionally identical:

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}

<CodeSnippets path="storybook-preview-with-ordered-pages-and-weights.md" />

<CodeSnippets path="storybook-preview-with-ordered-pages-before-weights.md" />

{/* prettier-ignore-end */}
